=pod

=head1 NAME

Mojolicious::Plugin::HostMeta - Serve and Retrieve Host-Meta Documents


=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Mojolicious
  $app->plugin('HostMeta');

  # Mojolicious::Lite
  plugin 'HostMeta';

  # Serves XRD or JRD from /.well-known/host-meta

  # Blocking requests
  print $c->hostmeta('gmail.com')->link('lrrd');

  # Non-blocking requests
  $c->hostmeta('gmail.com' => sub {
    print shift->link('lrrd');
  });


=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::HostMeta> is a Mojolicious plugin to serve and
request C<well-known> L<Host-Meta|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6415>
documents.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 register

  # Mojolicious
  $app->plugin(HostMeta => {
    expires => 100
  });

  # Mojolicious::Lite
  plugin 'HostMeta';

Called when registering the plugin.
Accepts one optional parameter C<expires>, which is the number
of seconds the served host-meta should be cached by the fetching client.
Defaults to 10 days.
All parameters can be set either as part of the configuration
file with the key C<HostMeta> or on registration
(that can be overwritten by configuration).


=head1 HELPERS

=head2 hostmeta

  # In Controller:
  my $xrd = $c->hostmeta;
  $xrd = $c->hostmeta('gmail.com');
  $xrd = $c->hostmeta('sojolicio.us' => ['hub']);
  $xrd = $c->hostmeta('sojolicio.us', { 'X-MyHeader' => 'Fun' } => ['hub']);
  $xrd = $c->hostmeta('gmail.com', -secure);

  # Non blocking
  $c->hostmeta('gmail.com' => ['hub'] => sub {
    my $xrd = shift;
    # ...
  }, -secure);

This helper returns host-meta documents
as L<XML::Loy::XRD> objects with the
L<XML::Loy::HostMeta> extension.

If no host name is given, the local host-meta document is returned.
If a host name is given, the corresponding host-meta document
is retrieved from the host and returned.

An additional hash reference or a L<Mojo::Headers> object can be used
to pass header information for retrieval.
An additional array reference may limit the relations to be retrieved
(see the L<WebFinger|http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-appsawg-webfinger>
specification for further explanation).
A final C<-secure> flag indicates, that discovery is allowed
only over C<https> without redirections.

This method can be used in a blocking or non-blocking way.
For non-blocking retrieval, pass a callback function as the
last argument before the optional C<-secure> flag to the method.
As the first passed response is the L<XML::Loy::XRD>
document, you have to use an offset of C<0> in
L<begin|Mojo::IOLoop::Delay/begin> for parallel requests using
L<Mojo::IOLoop::Delay>.


=head1 CALLBACKS

=head2 fetch_hostmeta

  # Establish a callback
  $app->callback(
    fetch_hostmeta => sub {
      my ($c, $host) = @_;

      my $doc = $c->chi->get("hostmeta-$host");
      return unless $doc;

      my $header = $c->chi->get("hostmeta-$host-headers");

      # Return document
      return ($c->new_xrd($doc), Mojo::Headers->new->parse($header));
    }
  );

This callback is released before a host-meta document
is retrieved from a foreign server. The parameters passed to the
callback include the current controller object and the host's
name.

If a L<XML::Loy::XRD> document associated with the requested
host name is returned (and optionally a L<Mojo::Headers> object),
the retrieval will stop.

The callback can be established with the
L<callback|Mojolicious::Plugin::Util::Callback/callback>
helper or on registration.

This can be used for caching.

Callbacks may be changed for non-blocking requests.


=head1 HOOKS

=head2 prepare_hostmeta

  $app->hook(prepare_hostmeta => sub {
    my ($c, $xrd) = @_;
    $xrd->link(permanent => '/perma.html');
  };

This hook is run when the host's own host-meta document is
first prepared. The hook passes the current controller
object and the host-meta document as an L<XML::Loy::XRD> object.
This hook is only emitted once for each subscriber.


=head2 before_serving_hostmeta

  $app->hook(before_serving_hostmeta => sub {
    my ($c, $xrd) = @_;
    $xrd->link(lrdd => './well-known/host-meta');
  };

This hook is run before the host's own host-meta document is
served. The hook passes the current controller object and
the host-meta document as an L<XML::Loy::XRD> object.
This should be used for dynamical changes of the document
for each request.


=head2 after_fetching_hostmeta

  $app->hook(
    after_fetching_hostmeta => sub {
      my ($c, $host, $xrd, $headers) = @_;

      # Store in cache
      my $chi = $c->chi;
      $chi->set("hostmeta-$host" => $xrd->to_string);
      $chi->set("hostmeta-$host-headers" => $headers->to_string);
    }
  );

This hook is run after a foreign host-meta document is newly fetched.
The parameters passed to the hook are the current controller object,
the host name, the XRD document as an L<XML::Loy::XRD> object
and the L<headers|Mojo::Headers> object of the response.

This can be used for caching.


=head1 ROUTES

The route C</.well-known/host-meta> is established and serves
the host's own host-meta document.
An L<endpoint|Mojolicious::Plugin::Util::Endpoint> called
C<host-meta> is established.


=head1 EXAMPLES

The C<examples/> folder contains a full working example application
with serving and discovery.
The example has an additional dependency of L<CHI>.

It can be started using the daemon, morbo or hypnotoad.

  $ perl examples/hostmetaapp daemon

This example may be a good starting point for your own implementation.

A less advanced application using non-blocking requests without caching
is also available in the C<examples/> folder. It can be started using
the daemon, morbo or hypnotoad as well.

  $ perl examples/hostmetaapp-async daemon


=head1 DEPENDENCIES

L<Mojolicious> (best with SSL support),
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Util::Endpoint>,
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Util::Callback>,
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::XRD>.


=head1 AVAILABILITY

  https://github.com/Akron/Mojolicious-Plugin-HostMeta

This plugin is part of the L<Sojolicious|http://sojolicio.us> project.


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011-2014, L<Nils Diewald|http://nils-diewald.de/>.

This program is free software, you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License version 2.0.

=cut
